[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: We
have two Boolean values,
you'll be glad to know that they're
true and false, so we got that right.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: Then we have
strings.
Strings are a sequence of characters.
Do you know why they are called strings?
It turns out nobody knows.
It's mystery, the earliest occurrence I
could find in the literature of someone
referring to string as a type
of which of the data structure
being a sequence of characters
was in over 60 report.
And I asked John McCarthy
who was on that committee,
why did you guys call them strings?
And he got angry with me.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: And
he since passed away, so
I can't follow up with him.
So we don't know why
they're called strings.
Earlier there was a sense of having
strings of things like strings
of symbols or strings of statements.
So a program was a string of statements,
but
string meaning specifically a text
containing a sequence of characters.
We don't know why we call that, and
doesn't make sense that we call it that,
but we do.
So sequences 0 or
more 16 bit Unicode characters.
This is UCS-2 which quite
same this as UTF-16.
Because JavaScript have no knowledge of
the surrogate pairs which get you out of
the basic plane.
Now it turns out surrogate pairs can
easily transit through the system, and
if your operating system knows about them,
but not display correctly.
But JavaScript will always
count them as two characters,
not as a single paired character.
JavaScript does not have a character type.
So if you want to talk about a single
character that's just a string with
length one.
Strings are immutable, which means once
a string is made it cannot be modified.
That turns out to be a really good thing.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
if you want to change a string,
you actually produce a new string.
Which might contain parts of
the content of the previous one.
Similar strings are equal under
triple equal, which is great.
Java got that wrong,
JavaScript got that right.
Hooray for JavaScript.
So if you have two strings containing
the same sequence of characters,
they're equal.
String literals can be written with either
single quotes or double quotes, and
they both work the same way with \ for
escapement.
So since we have two ways of writing
strings, I use double quote for
external strings.
Things like HTML templates, or
text to the users, or stuff like that.
And I use single quote for
internal strings and characters,
names of properties,
not that's internal to the program.
This is just a convention,
there's nothing to enforce it, but
I think it makes it easier to understand
the use of a string within a program.
We have a plus operator which
unfortunately both ads and concatenating.
This was a bad idea lifted from Java.
In Java it's not so
bad because Java is strongly typed, so
you can predict which
one it's going to do.
JavaScript being loosely typed, it's often
hard to predict what it's going to do,
and often does things wrong.
So a common problem is, someone will
take a number out of a form field, and
want to add it to another number.
The value that you get from a form
field is always a string, but
it's hard to remember sometimes
because it's labeled number.
And you're told the user to type in
a number, and you wanna take the number of
added input when you add it,
you actually concatenate it.
Which can cause the answer to be asked
by many thousands which is a bad thing,
and that's really a common
error happens all the time.
There are number of ways of
converting a number in to a string.
Numbers being objects
have two string methods.
There's also a string function
which is more commonly used,
you pass the thing there.
Be sure not to put new in
front of the string function,
cuz that does something
completely different.
You can then go the other way,
and convert a string to a number.
You can use the number function,
or you can use
the + prefix operator which is the
preferred way because it's the shortest.
There's also the parseInt
function which takes a string and
a radix, which is the base of
the numbers being converted from.
ParseInt will stop parsing once it sees
a character which it is not a digit
in the base that it's working in.
And it doesn't tell you
that it stopped early, and
it doesn't tell you what
the remaining characters are.
So it's a little difficult to use as
a parseInt function, despite its name.
And it is problematic if
there is any possibility that
the number that you're trying
to parse has a leading 0 in it.
Which is very common for dates and times.
Anything that by convention
has a leading 0.
Because it does the stupid see thing
of thinking that leading 0 means octal.
So now it's in base 8,
and if it sees an 8,
8 is not a digit in base 8,
so it stops at that point.
So parseInt 08 is 0, not 8,
really common error.
So the defense against that is
to always put in the 10 radix.
>> Douglas Crockford: And
it'll always do the right thing.
It's very unlikely that you're gonna
parse anything that's not base 10.
But occasionally, base 16, in that case,
you'll definitely want to
make explicit as well.
Strings have a length property,
so methods of properties, and
it tells you how many 16-bit
code points are in the string.
Strings have lots of methods,
again, strings are objects.
So there's charAt which will return
a single character within the string.
There's indexOf that does searching.
Search also does searching.
There's splice, split, and substring,
which can return parts of the string,
lots of useful things.
There's now a trim method
which was added in ES5.
Which is good because prior to that we
didn't have one, that was a big omission.
So if you are in ES6, and
you want to be able to trim,
that turns out you can fix it, you can
add something to string that prototype.
And awesomely, all of your strings
will know how to trim themselves.
>> Douglas Crockford: Have
a supplant method.
So here we have a template,
an HTML template with a couple
of with three variables in it.
And we have a data structure which has
properties whose names
match those variables.
So the obvious thing you'd want to
do is to take the template, and
do the replacement.
You can do that with the supplant
method on the template.
Unfortunately, JavaScript
doesn't have a method like that.
But it will be easier to write one, so
we can go to String.prototype.supplant,
and add a method which would do that
very thing, using a replace method.
Passing at regular expression which
is looking for those patterns, and
which is also given a function which will
make the substitution from the object.
So an array is a linear sequence
of memory which is divided into
equal size pockets which can be
indexed by number which allows for
a very fast way of retrieving
variables from a set.
JavaScript doesn't have
anything like that.
Instead, JavaScript has objects, and
it adds a little bit of magic to an object
to creates something that calls an array.
But which acts very differently than
real arrays, in some ways much better,
in some ways much worse.
So array inherits from object,
the indexes which you would put in
the brackets are converted into strings.
And then hashed into the object that backs
the array in order to retrieve the value,
it was very efficient for sparse arrays.
A sparse array is an array where most
of the cells are gonna be empty,
JavaScript kicks ass at that.
Unfortunately, in most of our
applications we don't use sparse arrays,
we use dense arrays, and
JavaScript is really inefficient at that.
But there is one advantage here,
when you're creating a new array,
you don't have to say what length it is.
And you don't have to say what
type is going to go into it,
because any type can go into it, and
it doesn't actually have a link.
So you can put as much stuff
in there as you want, and
it will always fail until
memory is exhausted.
Arrays have a special link property
which does not contain the number
of elements on the array.
What it does?
It contain is one more than the highest
integers subscript in the array.
Now for dense arrays,
that means the same thing, but
for sparse arrays means
something very different.
And the reason for having that is so
that you can loop through
an array using a for statement.
And have it work pretty much
the way it does in other languages.
You could use for in on arrays,
but I recommend that you don't.
The reason is that,
usually in arrays we expect to visit
the elements in the right order.
For in does not guarantee the order in
which it's going to return the values.
And so you don't know for sure that
you're gonna get the correct sequence,
and that could cause
some programs to fail.
We have a really nice array literal
formats similar to the object literal
format.
So here I've got an array containing
three elements, and it's length is four.
Because I'm sorry, it's like those three
and the elements are numbered zero,
one, and two.
I can add a new method, or
a new property, new element,
to the end of an array by
assigning to the array's length.
Because the array's length is always one
bigger than the highest numbered element.
This guarantees this element will be one
bigger than the previous one, and so
you can always append to that.
Arrays are objects, and so the dot
notation works, but the dot notation
doesn't work with numeric numbers,
because gets confused with decimal point.
So you should always use
the bracket notation with arrays,
except when calling methods.
There are lots of useful methods on
arrays, particularly some of the new
methods like map and
forEach that were added in the ES5.
Which allow you to take a function and
apply it to each of
the elements of the array.
>> Douglas Crockford: Arrays have a sort
function which unfortunately does horrible
things.
So here we have an array of numbers, and
we sort it, and it comes out like that.
Anyone guess what happened?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE].
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
it sorts in the strings.
On each comparison,
it forces those two numbers to be strings,
comparison of strings.
So it's wildly inefficient, and
it gives you the incorrect results.
Fortunately, it's possible to pass
a compare function to sort where
we can say do it my way.
Where you can subtract two numbers and
get the right result.
By default for numbers it does
something that is tragically wrong.
You can delete elements from an array,
using the delete operator.
But delete will not do what you want,
because it will leave a hole in the array.
There's a splice method which
will close up the hole,
let me show you an example of this.
So here I have an array of four elements,
and
I want to delete the b,
which is at index 1.
So I could delete myArray of 1,
but what I get back
now is an array with a hole in it,
because element 1 is now undefined.
Undefined is the value
of missing elements.
So if I wanna make that hole go away,
I could call a myArray.splice passing
it a one meaning start at index 1, and
the other one meaning, delete 1 element.
And the way that it does that is
that it then goes to element 2,
and deletes it and
reasserts it as element 1.
And goes to element 3, deletes it and
re inserts it as element 2.
So that's how it closes up the hole,
so it's going to be slow.
So appending things to the end
of arrays tends to be fast,
removing things from anywhere except
the end tends to be very slow.